Let's jump into a demo and check how to generate security reports with
Amazon Inspector. Before we generate the report, we need to install an
agent in our EC2 instance. I'm going to use the key pair that I
previously generated on SSH to my EC2 instance. Let's download the
package from the URL provided in the inspector documentation. You can
use either wget or cURL.
Let's install the downloaded package and make sure you run as a root user.
The installation may take a few seconds before it completes.
You can check the status of this agent by running
this agent with the status option.
Let's go back to AWS console and go to Amazon Inspector
Service. From the dashboard, you can see that currently
there are no assessments running.
Click on Help me create an Assessment, and you can see the inspector uses
a Service‑linked role and you have the option to perform assessment on
both on the network, as well as on the host.
And you can see, and to access the host, you need the agent to be
installed. Under Host Assessments, you can see that the agent is
going to be installed automatically, however,
you also saw before how to install it manually as well. I'm going to
leave both the options checked and click on Run once. Now you can see
the list of assessments that are going to be run during network
assessment and host assessment. Click OK to continue. Click on
Assessment templates to your left.
You can see the list of rules packages that are included
as part of the assessment process.
Click on Assessment target and it shows all the instances in the current AWS
account that will be included in the scanning process.
Go back to a dashboard and you can see there is one
assessment currently running.
Click that. You can see that it is currently collecting data and the duration
of this assessment is 1 hour. Click on Show status and you can see that
Amazon Inspector has been analyzing the instances.
Now click on Show agents and the agent is running and it is collecting data.
You can also see there are no findings being published yet.
I just waited for an hour and you can see the status
of the run is Analysis complete, and there are 106 findings.
Click on Findings to your left, and you can see a lot
of high and medium and low findings.
Click on one of them,
and you can see the severity and the findings and the
detailed description of each one of them.
To download the report, let's go back to the Assessment Run and
click on Download report. Choose the Findings report and select
the format. Click on Generate report.
This may take a while before the report gets generated.
This is 112 pages PDF report that lists all the findings in the current
assessment run. The executive summary shows there are 93 high severity,
3 medium, and 9 information findings.
As you scroll down the document,
you can see the rules package that was used as part of the assessment, and it also gives a detailed look of each finding.